This is the new version of the Swig generated Java API for ROSE. 
This work contins from stl_*.i files that have been gathered
from the web and are required since they are not present in the 
Swig distribution.

This work is generated by Swig.   At present, there are about 200K lines 
of Java code generated; and about 500K lines of C++ wrappers generated.
It all compiles and links (both the C++ code and the Java code).  
Running make in the current directory will cause it to be built; it 
takes about 5 minutes on a fast machine (so it is reasonable).  We 
will be adding this to our automated tests, plus whatever additional 
ways that we need to have this API be tested.

I have built Java APIs for all of the IR nodes, the front-end, the AST Interface 
support, and the backend (unparser). All the languages in ROSE are supported
in this Java API.  There is more that could be built (e.g. analysis),  but all this 
has been several days of fighting swig and I think we should do this iteratively.
I am interested in what sorts of test codes we should get into place so that we 
can test the work.

Requirements:
   1) Currently, it requires 2.0.0 or later, I am using version2.0.9 
        of Swig, it might well work with an earlier version, but I have 
        no experience with that.  
   2) An installed version of boost in /usr/include/boost, and ROSE,
       and Swig don't play well together if you installed version of
       boost is old and you have specified a newer version of boost 
       for use with ROSE.  This is because swig does not understand the "-isystem"
       option of gnu g++ and so I had to deal with this by uninstalling my old
       version 1.33 version of boost from my machine so that the specified
      version 1.42 (what I commonly use) would not require the "-isystem"
      option with ROSE.
   3) This work requires a configuration option: "--with-javaport".

Note that the testlink.cc is a program to test if all the function prototypes in 
ROSE have corresponding definitions.  It links ROSE with the extension 
of ROSE for JAVA.


