
This directory contains most of the ROSE documentation. Both LaTeX and Doxygen
are used to document ROSE.  

    There are three pieces to the ROSE documentation.
   1) HTML Documentation
         included html version of manual, tutorial, and Doxygen generated 
         documentation about all the classes within ROSE (or most of them).
   2) ROSE User Manual
         Contains a readable introduction to ROSE and it's mechanisms.

         As part of the manual, we include:
         * the installation guide and 
         * ROSE developer's guide
   3) ROSE Tutorial
         Contains lots of examples, with input and outputs from each.

The source files from which we build the documentation are located in different directories within the ROSE source tree.  
* Advantage: this makes it easy for developers to update their documentation associated with specific
subprojects within ROSE.
* Disadvantage: It also makes it difficult to update the document since fixing a typo may require
lengthy build in the build tree.
** workaround now: We provide manual_skeleton.tex which can be used to test an individual chapter within the source tree.
   Please look into this file to see how it can help speed up adding/fixing things in the manual.

TODO:
* support build Manual within the source tree without depending on generated files or configuration options.
* moving things to tutorials if they have to have dependencies on the generated files within the build tree of ROSE 

Notes: 
   1) The configure system for ROSE builds the html and latex documentation
      and places them into a ROSE distribution so that the user is not required to
      build any documentation.  
        a) At present the ROSE documentation however contains some explicit paths
           which might not be correct when the user untars the automatically
           packaged documentation.  We will be attempting to fix this in the future,
           it is not presently clear how to fix this, although Markus has suggested
           that we make the explicit paths relative (but relative to what?).

   2) All Latex documentation for ROSE is provided.

   3) Currently, "make distcheck" will force the documentation to be built if it is not 
    already built and copied into the Source Tree.  This is the only case of the build process
    modifying the source tree, but this avoid having the user build the documentation for
    ROSE (which would force a dependence upon latex (setup with extended internal buffer
    sizes) and Doxygen and some other tools (dot, etc.).
  
   4) Be very careful about specifying makefile targets to force the generation of the
    documentation when it is out of date, because this will often force the makefiles
    to build the documentation for the end user (something that his/her environment might
    not support).  Documentation is really only for construction using the development
    version of ROSE, not a formal distribution.  To force the generation of the
    documentation use the Makefile rules specific for this purpose (force-latex-docs, 
    etc.), and not the "make docs" rule.

   5) Setting up the Makefiles to build the documentation is tedious and testing it
    requires running "make distcheck" which can take a long time (this is no fun).

   6) Run "make cleanSource" to clear the distribution saved to the source tree.

Last updated, Liao 7/12/2012
