Hi,
    We are distributing ROSE to a number of groups but it is not
yet available on the web more generally.  I would ask that you not
share this information about how to obtain ROSE, but instead refer
people to me.  Let us know if you have any feedback.  And please
let me know if you wish to be added to our ROSE email list for
updates about ROSE.

Instructions for download of ROSE:
    We are moving the distribution to ORNL at some point soon and that
will simplify distribution for us.  Until then you can get the
version using binaries of the EDG work at (it uses gnu version 3.3.x
to build its binaries so this is also a requirement for using ROSE):

ROSE 0.8.10a source with EDG binaries:
     http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~richie/llnl/ROSE

The user ID is 'rose', and the password is 'let.me.in' (w/o quotes).
Grab ROSE-0.8.10a-with-EDG-binaries.tar.gz. (The other file is the HTML documentation)
This particular binary distribution assumes Linux and use of gcc 3.3.x. Please
feel free to ask if you need something different, or if you run into any problems.

Let me know if I can be of any help,
Dan



Hi,
    Unlike for source code distributions of ROSE which
contain the EDG source code, we have a web site
we can use for the distribution of ROSE which has the
binary of the EDG work. 

But first a few notes:
    1) Please follow the directions, we have tested this
a few times and we have discovered a few ways it can
fail. 
   2) Only use this with a 32 bit system.
   3) Use the gnu 4.1 compiler (I used 4.1.2, but that
       should not be too big of a deal).
   4) Only use the configure command line WITHOUT options.
   5) make the build tree separate from the source tree.

Directions to get: "rose-0.9.1a-with_edg_binary.tar.gz"

  To download a ROSE binary distribution,
    (1) Point your browser at: http://vuduc.org/rose-dist
    (2) Login, using
          Username: rose
          Password: let.me.in

From the web page, copy the file to your computer....

1) copy to a directory
2) untar the tarball
3) type "mkdir compileTree"
4) type "cd compileTree"
5) type "../rose-0.9.1a/configure"
   (there will be output from configure)
6) type "make"
   (you can use the -jn option for any value of "n" to run the make in parallel)
7) type "make check" or "make -jn check"
8) type "make install"
9) type make installcheck"

  You now have ROSE installed and tested, the Compass
work is in projects/compass and you can see from the
"make check" rule how to test alternative source code.
To generate the Compass manual, type "make docs".

  Note that we have demonstrated an error if you run the
configure script with the --prefix option, the default
is to build the install tree in the build tree, and this
works. So don't use ANY options. I will research the 
problem with when it is explicitly specified later.  

  This distribution was built using RedHat 
version 4, but we have confirmed that it works with other
installations of RedHat version 4 plus Fedora 7 systems.
On Ubuntu we have discovered a problem with "yywrap"
not being defined and we are trying to understand this
problem better.  CERT has the source code version of
ROSE (with the source code version of EDG) but they 
have reported what may be the same "yywrap" problem.
When I can communicate more with David I will get into
this.  At the moment I don't have a Ubuntu system to
test this on, but a student working with us does and
he is going to look into it. 

Let me know if you have any problems, have fun,
Dan

P.S.  I can be reached at 925-423-2668 (my work number).

